In this video you'll add an interactive map to the website for a client that has a location.
We'll use a Google Maps again to easily embed a map on the Contact page and in the footer content area
them and you'll be able to set them up professionally with these techniques.
To embed a map on the Contact page what we'll do is put some contact information with the address that
And above the contact form so that it sits in here a nice interactive map of the location.
So if we go to the dashboard and if the Google Maps plug in it's not already activated go ahead and
activate it and then roll over maps and let's look at maps this Google Maps plug in allows you to have
But we only need one map on this.
So let's go ahead and open up the one called My first map and take a look at the settings
and the default settings are fine to leave for now.
But it looks like we've got an indicator on this map that is California United States.
Put in a location with an address
click add marker and then I can go down here and I can use the mouse to zoom in and pan around until
I centered myself on the marker right where I want to be.
I want people to be able to find the location easily but also know where they are and be familiar with
Great.
So as I've dragged the map around it's showing me the width at 100 percent for a responsive map and
Let's save the map
great you could see that it moved the zoom level to there that's where I had zoomed in.
Now that I have that map I have my marker at 35 front street and it gives me a short code just like
So if I copy the short code should be able to just open up the contact page and drop the map right in
oh I'm excited let's open up the Web site contact page and once this is done loading I'll go ahead and
Nice.
So if I click on the marker it shows me the address.
It's an interactive map so I can zoom in and out I can locate the location.
I can also use the mouse zoom in and out.
And these are functions that you can either keep or limit using the plug in settings it's a little bit
form to set it apart just a little bit.
And let's check the responsiveness to the screen size.
If I drag this screen from the array a little bit and make it narrower I can watch the say and how it
awesome.
Go ahead and make that map for any address you like on your own.
lay it out so that it looks good.
Puzzel video now and then I'll show you how I would do that.
How do you do.
Well if I were going to do that I would go back to the contact page and after the map but before the
and then if you had shift enter it'll do a single line space instead of double line space.
When actually put another space in there and then how about a horizontal line there.
Now I'm going to go ahead and center that and make it larger.
Nice.
And I probably should announce this contact for
an update.
Nice
okay.
Now if we look at every page of the website there's a header there's a sidebar and there's two areas
left and right that are located above the footer that you can use that are widget areas in the 2016
What I'd like to do now is put a Google map into one of the widget areas and the name address and phone
Zagat on How'd that go.
Here's how I would do it.
I'm going to go back to the contact page and just grab the address and phone number because I'll be
And then when they do this using the custom Mizer so that I can see what it's looking like as I go now
Let's go ahead and put a text widget into the content bottom one widget area.
Title it.
Find me.
Now inside of widgets you can only put text you can style it with HDMI now but the HTL mail that came
page.
So it wasn't large if you remember this was heading to and it's centered so I could use some HVM l tags
and close it with some tags and a slash in front of the command.
And if I have an entry here I can click automatically add paragraphs so it'll put a line break in.
Where I where I have line breaks and let's see what it looks like if I put a heading to for the phone
OK.
Now this is going to be on the left side.
If I use content bottom two because it's left and right.
You know I think I'll use heading to for the address as well.
So I'll just check this heading to tag.
Cut it and pasted right there
nice and hopefully that won't be too wide.
You know what I could actually put a carriage return in there after Front Street.
And I won't need the comma.
There we go.
So if I have that on current can contact but I'm too for current applicants at bottom one rather in
content bottom two loops.
I mean at one of my maps so the Google Maps plug in provides some widgets and it was the ID one that
I can have a title so that it matches
nice and you could see it's responsive to the area of the widget.
And then there's the address.
So let's take a look at it say on the home page because those content areas at the footer of the Web
So if somebody scroll to the bottom of any page of the website they'll be able to get the contact info
and an interactive map if they like.
So that's what the home page looks like.
And so if we go to the About page
great there is that footer area nicely done.
Now something you may have noticed is that on the Contact page where we have our map embedded if you
Also in terms of the plug in that we're using right here you're only allowed one map unless you upgrade
So I've done a little research and I've moved over to this W.P. Google map plug in here by flipper code
installed it and found it to be a little bit more user friendly and it has the ability to create more
I've already installed and activated the plug in and I'll show you some of the differences and how I
So you had a location separately from a map and then you can manage locations and manage maps.
The first thing I did was added a location with our address.
I called it fire weed photography.
But if I go in and edit it you can see how this plugin works.
And it also has a nice feature where you can display the info window message above the marker with whatever
So that's what I placed here.
I checked the info window the fall open box and then I saved my location.
Then I added a map.
across the map.
The same thing.
And here are some of my settings.
I did have to experiment a little bit and choose a zoom level between 1 and 19 by saving the map and
on and I made the map the same amount of pixels high as we had before.
it responsive to any screen size.
But then I just save the map and once you save the map and you go to your managed maps page you can
So I'm getting Control-C to copy that and then I'll go to the contact me page open it up and replace
Now here's what the contact page looks like.
You can see that I don't have a marker but if I click on it there's where I get my marker information
and the map is zoom mobile as well as draggle.
So let's replace the shortcut
with the new one.
Update the page and take a look as we refresh the contact me page
nice that looks a lot better to me it already has the info graphic up there.
And now the old map is now able to be embedded down here.
will be useful here.
looks good.
So let's go back and create a new map under WP Google map.
This one I'm going to call
fire weed footer so I can differentiate it 100 percent with this time.
I'm going to make it 200 pixels in height.
Let's go to the same zoom level
and I'm actually going to use the same location on this map.
And now all I have to do is go to manage my maps and find the short code for this one which I called
Copy that and then paste it into the widget area this time other appearance widgets will look at content
Now if you remember I dragged in the WP Google map right here and I'm going to go ahead and just drag
And I mean to select the fire we'd foot or map
title that map and click save in the widget.
Let's go back and refresh the page
nice.
That looks much better and we can display both maps on the same page and review if I click about the
And now I think it's laid out just a little bit better.
The last thing I'm going to do is go ahead and keep my word press installation clean by going back into
Install plug ins deactivating and then deleting that plug in.
Let's see it's W.P. Google Maps.
Not by flipper code but by W.P. Google Maps.
Once you delete inside the Wordpress dashboard it'll give you a confirmation message.
Yes delete these files.
Great.
And we've inserted some nice maps into our website.
In this video you've configured a Google map to display an interactive location map to visitors of the
information.
In the next video we'll set up the Google Analytics plug in to begin tracking activity on the Web site
and also to display the stats on the dashboard.